# 30BQ

### Self introduction

Hello, I'm glad for the opportunity to speak with you today. My name is Yu. I hold a master's degree in Computer Science from the University of Chicago. 

After completing my studies, I joined TikTok as a Machine Learning Engineer, where I've now worked for about a year. Prior to my current role, I interned as a Machine Learning Engineer at TikTok and as an Applied Scientist at Microsoft. These experiences have provided me with a robust technical foundation in machine learning, with a specific focus on Natural Language Processing and Large Language Models.

In my current position, I am involved in developing and productizing Large Language Models, and I lead cutting-edge research in LLM techniques. I am currently leading a project where my responsibilities include model development, iteration, and deployment in production environments. I also coordinate with other teams to align our objectives and deliverables.

Please feel free to ask me more if you are interested in my experiences and I would love to talk more.

### Where do you see yourself five years from now

In the next five years as a Machine Learning Engineer, I have several key objectives that I hope to achieve. 

- For the next 1-2 years where I will be working primarily as a junior MLE, the top priority for me is to accumulate hands on experiences and gain deeper understanding of my tasks and the large team.
- For the later 3-5 years, I aspire to **take on more significant responsibilities**, this could include **leading projects, mentoring juniors, and collaborating with cross-functional teams in a broader scope.** By doing so, I hope to contribute to the growth and success of our team and the company as a whole.
- No matter what stage I am at, the thing that I want to persistently pursue is to keep tracking and learning new technologies as the AI is a fast-evolving field. Furthermore, I aim to make a measurable impact to the company by actively seeking for the possibility of applying the cutting-edge techniques.

### **Weakness**

My biggest weakness is that I tend to take on too many tasks myself without effectively resorting to others for help. I have a strong sense of ownership and responsibility for the work, which often leads me to believe that I can handle everything on my own. This sometimes results in overloading myself with tasks and working overtime to ensure everything gets completed to my standards.

For example, in the one of the project where I was the owner, I was taking too much time on setting data annotation standard and building system pipelines, but didn't have enough time to focus on the ML model development and optimization.

To overcome this weakness, I've been actively working on improving my awareness of resorting to others for help and arrange some tasks to other teams. I've also been focusing on effective communication, clearly articulating expectations, providing necessary resources, and regularly checking in with team members to offer support. I tried to delegate the data annotation task to data team after the standard is clear, and delegate a part of system development task to the engineering team. By gradually learning to trust the capabilities of my colleagues, I 've been able to reduce my workload, avoid burnout, and create a more collaborative and efficient work environment.

### Strength

Keep things organized. This allows me

- Keep a high work efficiency: I will write down each tasks, pritoritize each task and divide larger task into smaller steps. This ensures everything is done in a correct order and avoid things to be missed off.
- Be comfortable with multitask: In addition to the tasks, I also track the progress of each task and keep todo list updated, so that I can easily switch context between different projects.

- Learn new things in a fast manner. Whenever I learned a new knowledge, I always build connection between the new knowledge and my existing knowledge. In this way the new knowledge becomes more easy to understand, and goes into my memory seamlessly.

### **Conflict/Disagreement with your colleague/supervisor**

- Situation: I'd like to talk about a time when we are going to prepare a demo for our clients to show the innovation of our ML model and how the innovation could help our clients on their needs.
- We already had a version of model that is quite stable, but it's a liitle bit computational expensive and may require longer waiting time from clients. My colleague thought it is necessary to develop a simplermodel that reduces the computation and shorten the waiting time, while I prefer the model that is more stable, because I thought for the demo, the effect and the stability of our model should be the top priority.
- So in order to reach an agreement, for both solutions, I listed the benefits and the risks clearly. For the stable version, the benefit is the effect is quite stable and satisfactory, and there is not risk because everything is ready. For the simpler version, the beneift is it can reduce the waiting time for our clients, but the risk is also high: we can't assure that the stability and the effect of the simpler model given a quite limited time, and if there are some badcases, that's is unacceptable.
- We loop in more colleagues, from both product team and engineering team, to discuss the which solution is better. We finally reached an agreement that the stable version should be used for the demo, and we worked on improve the stabilty of the simpler version for next steps.

### **Multiple tasks at the same time**

In my current role as a MLE, it is common that I have multiple tasks at the same time, as my principle for this is to set priority and make detailed tracking records.

- Situation & Task: I'd like to talk about a time when I have to work on three different tasks at the same time: working with engineering team to build a pipeline for our ML model to push to productization; working on the optimization of the ML model, and working with another research scientist team on a research project.
- Action: So what i did was
  - Setting priorities to each task. The work with the engineering team on the pipeline development is the most prioritized as it directly impact our online buesiness, and we should avoid the product from being blocked by it. The ML model optimization task was the second prioritized because it affected client's feedback to our product. The research project with another team, although it is important in the long term, it's priority was the lowest compared to the other tasks under the situation
  - Making detailed tracking records. For the pipeline development task, I maintained a detailed record of the progress of each subtasks, and keep it updated everyday, so that when I switched my context on this, I could know the next steps immediately and clearly. For the other two projects, I updated the progress weekly, so that it won't take too much time, but also frequently enought to keep the project organized.
- Result: As a result, the I finished building the ML pipeline system with engineering team within two weeks, and the pushed to quality assurance for next stage. I also devloped an optmized ML model to be used in the production. For the research project with another team, I managed to keep my minds updated with their progress, so that when I was back to work on this project, our collaboration was contiuoued seamlessly.

### Mistake/Failure/Missing Deadline

- Situation: We planned to push a ML model to produtization, but found it took longer time to make predictions, which causes a little bit stress for the schduled resources for online service.
- As the owner of the ML model, I was responsible to give a conclusion on whether a simpler model that has less parameters could help reduce the running time for, without sacrificing the performance.
- Missing deadline: I order to fully evaluation the model performance, I trained a simpler mode, and wait until the model was converged by observing metrics, but this cause a delay of about two days for the conclusion to be delivered, which initially reduced the flexibility for the following stages. However, due to my comprehensive evaluation, my conclusion was very solid and confident, and eventually the simpler model was proved to be as effective as the old one, following my conclusion.
- This experience taught me valueable lessons in time management on how to think ahead, and allocate sufficient time for unexpected and urgent works. Since then, I always plan ahead for a couple of days, by giving me the flexibility of hanling such events. 

### Working with someone with different personality

Working the people with diversity and different perspectives is both challenging and meaningful.

- Situation & Task: I'd like to talk about my experience of working with a project manager, Scott, on optimizing the ML model's capability, to optimize the user experience. As a PM, Scott was fast-paced, and often made decision based on intuitive feelings, whereas as a MLE, I am more technical-oriented, making decisions based on data.

- Action

  - **Adaptation of Working Style**: **I took the initiative to occasionally engage in more informal, brainstorming sessions**, which Scott preferred, to balance our working styles.
  - **Find common grond and shared goals**: This will help build trust and **open the door for a constructive discussion.** For every problem he raised, we target at figuring out the solution that can improve our user's experience most, because the user experience is the ultimate goal for both of us.
  - **Open Communication**: We established a routine where I would provide quick d**aily updates**, which allowed for immediate feedback and kept both of us on the same page.

  - Actively lisenting, mutual understanding, and adapt my communication style to effectively convey my points. 
  - Make final decisions based on data-driven statistics.

- Result: this approach proved to be highly effective. We solve the all the problems one-by-one, resulted in a 15% increase in user satisfaction. This experience taught me the value of adaptability and effective communication in a team setting. It also highlighted the importance of presenting data in a way that is accessible and engaging for different personalities.
